## v2.5.0 - Microtime Time Zones support
- Microtime: Now detecting nanoseconds independently of formatting.
- Microtime: Added time zone recognition.
- Microtime: Added the `TimeZoneInfo` utility class.
- Microtime: Added `getTimezoneInfo()`.
- Microtime: Added `getMilliseconds()`.
- Microtime: Added `getNanoseconds()`.
- Microtime: Added `getNanoDate()`.
- Microtime: Nanoseconds are now persisted when cloning dates.
- Microtime: Time zone identifiers are no longer case sensitive.
- Microtime: `getISODate()` and `getNanoDate()` can optionally include the time zone.

### Nanoseconds

Microtime will more reliably detect and adjust nanosecond
values in date strings, reducing them to microseconds.
The nanoseconds can still be accessed via `getNanoseconds()`.

### Deprecated methods

- `Microtime::createFromMicrotime()`

## v2.4.1 - PHP8 compatibility release
- ImageHelper: Removed some PHP8 deprecation notices.

## v2.4.0 - Maintenance and RGBAColor update
- HTMLTag: Made the constructor public to allow extending the class.
- Classable: Removed `addClass()` param type hint for interface compatibility.
- RBGAColor: Fixed setting a color channel via Array access.
- RGBAColor: Added the non-immutable `applyXXX()` methods required for Array access.
- Core: Fixed PHP8 deprecation notices.

## v2.3.4 - FileHelper improvements
- PathInfo: `isWithinFolder()` now correctly handles `../` in paths.

## v2.3.3 - FileHelper improvements
- PathInfo: Added `getSize()` to get the size in bytes.
- PathInfo: Added `isWithinFolder()` to compare paths.

## v2.3.2 - Luma fix
- RGBAColor: Better Luma calculation, based on an actual Luma formula.
- RGBAColor: Added `getLumaPercent()`.
- RGBAColor: Added `isDark()` and `isLight()`.

## v2.3.1 - HSV bugfix
- HSVColor: Fixed a division by zero issue with some color values.

## v2.3.0 - HSVColor feature (Breaking)
- HSVColor: Added a new color utility class for color adjustments.
- ColorChannel: Added `getPercentRounded()`.
- ColorChannel: Added support for passing through existing instances in factory methods.
- Colors: Renamed `decimal` related methods to `alpha` as it was too confusing.
- Stringable Interface: Now using Symfony's PHP8 shim to make it `Stringable` compatible.
- ImageSize: Added `getRatio()` to get the size aspect ratio value.
- ImageSize: Added `toStringRedable()` utility method.
- ImageSize: Added resize methods, including the practical `resizeInto()`.
- ImageSize: Added the global function `imgSize()` to create an instance.

### Breaking changes

- `RGBAColor::getBrightness()` now returns `BrightnessChannel`.
- Renamed `ColorChannel::getDecimal()` to `getAlpha()`.
- Renamed `ColorChannel::decimal()` to `alpha`.
- Renamed `UnitsConverter::float2IntSevenBit()` to `alpha2IntSevenBit()`.
- Renamed `UnitsConverter::float2IntEightBit()` to `alpha2IntEightBit()`.
- Renamed `UnitsConverter::percent2Float()` to `percent2Alpha()`.
- Renamed `UnitsConverter::float2percent()` to `alpha2percent()`.
- Renamed `UnitsConverter::intSevenBit2Float()` to `intSevenBit2Alpha()`.
- Renamed `UnitsConverter::intEightBit2IntSevenBit()` to `intSevenBit2Alpha()`.
- Renamed `UnitsConverter::intEightBit2Float()` to `intEightBit2Alpha()`.

## v2.2.11 - RGBAColor fix
- RGBAColor: Fixed `toHEX()` returning erroneous values ([#10](https://github.com/Mistralys/application-utils/issues/10)).

## v2.2.10 - URLInfo path fix
- URLInfo: Fixed spaces stripped from the path component of URLs.

## v2.2.9 - Minor enhancements
- URLInfo: URLs that cannot be parsed by `parse_url` no longer cause a PHP error.
- URLInfo: URLs with too many slashes, e.g. `https:///` are now fixed automatically.

## v2.2.8 - Microtime ISO8601 support
- Microtime: Added support for date strings in ISO8601 format.

## v2.2.7 - Bugfixes
- URLInfo: Fixed a PHP error when calling `getTypeLabel()` with the `none` type.

## v2.2.6 - Bugfixes
- ArrayDataCollection: Fixed `getBool()` not accepting a string `1` as true.
- FileHelper: Fixed `sendFileAuto()` not being static.
- AttributeCollection: Added `setKeepIfEmpty()` to keep select empty attributes.
- HTMLTag: Added the possibility to keep empty attributes in the rendered tag.
- Functions: Added `array_remove_values()`.

## v2.2.5 - Minor enhancements
- ArrayDataCollection: Added `createFromJSON()`.
- ImageHelper: Fixed the `trim()` method borking colors in some cases.

## v2.2.4 - Added the JSON converter
- ConvertHelper: Added `json2var()`, `json2array()` and `array2json()`.
- JSONConverter: Added the static class with all utility methods.
- JSONConverter: All JSON methods now throw `JSONConverterException` exceptions.
- Updated all relevant internal calls to use the JSON converter methods.
- ArrayDataCollection: Added date and time related methods.
  - `getMicrotime()`
  - `setMicrotime()`
  - `getDateTime()`
  - `setDateTime()`
  - `getTimestamp()`

### Exception changes

Any methods that were documented to trigger a `JsonException` before
now exclusively trigger `JSONConverterException`, which is not compatible
with `JsonException`. Try/Catch blocks must be updated.

> Note: The original `JsonException` is still available via the previous exception.

## v2.2.3 - DataArrayCollection tweak
- DataArrayCollection: `getJSONArray` now works with array values.

## v2.2.2 - FileHelper bugfix
- FileInfo: Fixed `is_file()` wrongly detecting existing folders as files in some cases.
- DataArrayCollection: Added `remove()`.
- DataArrayCollection: Added `keyExists()` and `keyHasValue()`.
- DataArrayCollection: An existing collection can now be used in `create()`, as pass-through value.

## v2.2.1 - Data array collection
- Collections: Added the `ArrayDataCollection` helper class.

## v2.2.0 - ImageHelper and PHP8 compatibility
- ImageHelper: Improved the `trim()` method.
- ImageHelper: Prepared for PHP8's GD library changes.
- ImageHelper: Renamed `opacity` to  `alpha` to keep the terminology consistent.
- ImageHelper: Fixed some alpha channel-related issues.
- ImageHelper: Added some unit tests for methods like `trim()`.
- RequestHelper: Made `RequestHelper::createCURL()` public.
- RequestHelper: Fixed PHP8 compatibility when initializing CURL.
- FileHelper: Fixed `removeExtension` throwing an exception with extensionless paths.
- Code: All unit tests running on PHP8.
- FileHelper: Added `IndeterminatePath` for paths that can be either a file or a folder.
- FileHelper: `FileInfo` and `FolderInfo` can now work with paths that do not exist.

### Breaking changes

#### ImageHelper

Renamed all `opacity` methods to `alpha`.

#### FileHelper

Using `getPathInfo()` on paths like `/path/to/folder` when the target 
file or folder do not exist, will not return a folder instance anymore, but an
`IndeterminatePath`. This is because the target can be either a file or a folder. 

To avoid confusion when working with folders, use `/path/to/folder/` instead. 
Alternatively, use `getFolderInfo()` or `getFileInfo()` to specify the expected
type.

### Deprecated features

- SVNHelper: Marked as deprecated, will be removed in a future release.

## v2.1.3 - URLInfo maintenance release
- URLInfo: Fixed parsing localhost URLs, with or without scheme.
- URLInfo: Improved the parsing of some edge cases.
- URLInfo: Namespaced and renamed internally used classes.
- URLInfo: All exceptions are now instances of `URLException`.
- URLInfo: Added custom schemes via `URISchemes`.
- URLInfo: Added custom host names via `URLHosts`.

## v2.1.2 - Maintenance release
- ClassHelper: Better handling of exceptions passed to `requireObjectInstanceOf()`.

## v2.1.1 - Maintenance release
- PHPClassInfo: Added support for detecting interfaces.
- PHPClassInfo: Added `isInterface()` and `isClass()` to individual results.
- FileInfo: Added `getBaseName()` to get the file name without extension.
- ClassHelper: Now throwing exceptions passed to `requireObjectInstanceOf`.
- RequestHelper: Added the `AcceptHeader` class for individual headers.

## v2.1.0 - Class helper release
- ClassHelper: Added the new `ClassHelper` static class to help with class loading.
- StyleCollection: Fixed mandatory `$important` parameter on `styleREM()`.

## v2.0.1 - FileInfo maintenance update
- FileHelper: Modified file and folder related methods to accept `SplFileInfo` instances.
- FileHelper: Added `PHPFile`, which extends `FileInfo`.
- FileHelper: Deprecated `checkPHPFileSyntax()`. Use `PHPFile::checkSyntax()` instead.
- FileHelper: `JSONFile` now extends `FileInfo`.
- FileHelper: `SerializedFile` now extends `FileInfo`.
- FileHelper: The class has been converted to strict typing.
- FileHelper: Fixed `FileInfo` throwing an exception when cast to string on not existing files.
- Microtime: Added all format character constants in the new class `DateFormatChars`.
- ConvertHelper: Added case insensitivity to `string2bool()`.
- ConvertHelper: Added `string2words()`, using the new `WordSplitter` class.
- LipsumHelper: Added the helper, with a lipsum dummy text detection tool ([#7](https://github.com/Mistralys/application-utils/issues/7)).

## v2.0.0 - PHP7.4 and code quality update
- FileHelper: Removed the deprecated `openUnserialized()` method.
- StringBuilder: Added `bool()`.
- StringBuilder: Added `setSeparator()` to customize the separator character.
- FileFinder: Added the `$enabled` parameter to `makeRecursive()`.
- FileHelper: Added the `FileInfo` and `FolderInfo` classes.
- FileHelper: Modernized the code, and split into subclasses.
- FileHelper: Added `FolderInfo::getIterator()`.
- Traits: Added the `StylableTrait` trait and matching interface.
- Traits: Added the `AttributableTrait` trait and matching interface.
- Traits: Added the `ClassableAttribute` trait and matching interface.
- Classable: Removed type hints on `addClass()` for HTML_QuickForm compatibility.
- Examples: Added a separate composer install for the examples UI.
- RGBAColor: Refactored entirely with color channels.
- StyleCollection: Added the utility class `StyleCollection` to handle CSS styles.
- HTMLTag: Added the new tag builder utility class.
- Examples: Added a separate `composer.json` to solve composer dependency issues.
- UnitTests: Tests are now included in the PHPStan analysis.
- UnitTests: Started modernizing tests with namespaces and type hinting.
- Code: PHPStan Analysis is now clean up to level 5.
- Code: Generalized type hinting update for PHP 7.4 (ongoing).
- BaseException: The previous parameter is now documented as accepting `Throwable`.
- CSVHelper: Upgraded library to v1.3.

### Breaking changes
 
- Minimum PHP version requirement is now v7.4.
- Deprecated `FileHelper::findFiles()`.
- Removed `$exit` parameter of `Request::sendJSON()`. Use `sendJSONAndExit()` instead.
- Removed `$exit` parameter of `Request::sendHTML()`. Use `sendHTMLAndExit()` instead.
- Removed deprecated methods:
  - `FileHelper::createCSVParser()`.
  - `FileHelper::parseCSVString()`.
  - `FileHelper::parseCSVFile()`.
  - `FileHelper::getUTFBOMs()`.
  - `FileHelper::detectUTFBom()`.
  - `FileHelper::isValidUnicodeEncoding()`.

### Scrutinizer changes

Removed the `application-localization` installation from the configuration,
as there currently seems to be no easy fix to make it possible.

Removed this part:

```
    dependencies:
        override:
            - COMPOSER_ROOT_VERSION=dev-master composer require mistralys/application-localization:1.4.1
```
